ISSS-602_Python-for-DA_SMU
Assignment 3 is the first data analytics work in the course. 
The previous pieces of work are mainly aimed at training the thinking process and techniques for Python (conditional, looping, object oriented programming...).
I. INTRODUCTION
Background of the data - TBU
The description of the data can be found at the end of this document.
The requirements of this assignment can be summarized as followed:
  1. Filtering artists by multiple performance criteria such as the number of followers and streams, followed by visualizing this filtered data
  2. Time series plotting of key properties of the songs from the most popular artists.
  3. Visualize the trend of popular genres in 2020 by weeks
  4. Preliminary bi-variate plotting of song properties.
The tool used is Jupiter Notebook

II. WORK SUMMARY
In this assignment in summary, I applied the following techniques. Detailed step by step are captioned in the Jupiter Notebook file.
  1. Data wrangling
    + Eliminating rows of missing numerical data.
    + Data type correction.
  2. Data Analysis
    + Grouping by relevant columns followed by performing group aggregated transformation (summation, max, mean)
    + Eliminating duplicates
    + Sorting 
    + Filtering string containing field with regex and boolean masking
    + Filtering dataframe by using simple list and boolean masking
  3. Data Visualization
    + Customized plotting with matplotlib
    + Heatmap and PairGrid with Seaborn

III. MORE ON DATA
Description of columns:
Highest Charting Position: The highest position that the song has been on in the Spotify Top 200 Weekly Global Charts in 2020 & 2021.
Number of Times Charted: The number of times that the song has been on in the Spotify Top 200 Weekly Global Charts in 2020 & 2021.
Week of Highest Charting: The week when the song had the Highest Position in the Spotify Top 200 Weekly Global Charts in 2020 & 2021.
Song Name: Name of the song that has been on in the Spotify Top 200 Weekly Global Charts in 2020 & 2021.
Song iD: The song ID provided by Spotify (unique to each song).
Streams: Approximate number of streams the song has.
Artist: The main artist/ artists involved in making the song.
Artist Followers: The number of followers the main artist has on Spotify.
Genre: The genres the song belongs to.
Release Date: The initial date that the song was released.
Weeks Charted: The weeks that the song has been on in the Spotify Top 200 Weekly Global Charts in 2020 & 2021.
Popularity:The popularity of the track. The value will be between 0 and 100, with 100 being the most popular.
Danceability: Danceability describes how suitable a track is for dancing based on a combination of musical elements including tempo, rhythm stability, beat strength, and overall regularity. A value of 0.0 is least danceable and 1.0 is most danceable.
Acousticness: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 of whether the track is acoustic.
Energy: Energy is a measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically, energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy.
Instrumentalness: Predicts whether a track contains no vocals. The closer the instrumentalness value is to 1.0, the greater likelihood the track contains no vocal content.
Liveness: Detects the presence of an audience in the recording. Higher liveness values represent an increased probability that the track was performed live.
Loudness: The overall loudness of a track in decibels (dB). Loudness values are averaged across the entire track. Values typical range between -60 and 0 db.
Speechiness: Speechiness detects the presence of spoken words in a track. The more exclusively speech-like the recording (e.g. talk show, audio book, poetry), the closer to 1.0 the attribute value.
Tempo: The overall estimated tempo of a track in beats per minute (BPM). In musical terminology, tempo is the speed or pace of a given piece and derives directly from the average beat duration.
Valence: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound more positive (e.g. happy, cheerful, euphoric), while tracks with low valence sound more negative (e.g. sad, depressed, angry).
Chord: The main chord of the song instrumental.
